[MUSIC]
>> A. Frost: So we're gonna move on to
classes.t Who's stoked about classes?
>> A. Frost: See, I got one, I got two.
>> Audience1: Classes sound good,
let's do some.
>> A. Frost: Three,
all right, we've got classes.
I'm gonna be honest with you, I wasn't.
Cuz I started working in JavaVille,
where it's like,
horrible service implementor
factory service proxy.
You know like, why did you name it that?
That's the worst possible
name you could have named it.
And so I'm like, dude,
Java if I ever have a JavaScript object
that's named
com.frontendMaster's.services.,
I'm going to give up,
I'm moving to another country.
I got really scared that was going
to happen, and it is gonna happen.
Like, who doubts it?
Who doubts it?
Just for the record,
no one raised their hand.
It's gonna happen, and so I am nervous.
I am nervous about that.
It think the community, though, will fight
it back and keep it down to a minimum.
Which so I got over it.
But then once I learned you can
extend built in functions like
built in objects,
I thought that could be cool.
Like an array, I could make my array,
and it just extends array and
I could I could make
the array.push function.
I can make it return the array itself.
So I could daisy chain like, .push, .push,
.push, I could do a bunch of
things like in the in line.
Which might have to do array.push,
blah.push, know what I'm saying?
I could extend and do my own stuff.
Maybe I could use
classes to make something that's
easy to read because, let's face it.
Well I'll get into it, but, so
now I'm actually pretty excited about it.
That count?
All right, I don't think the chat's
listening, so let's hurry.
Okay, so the history of classes in ES6.
It goes back to the ES4 days and
we know this,
because Adobe's like we're just
gonna implement it on our own.
There's been lots of Churn.
There's lots of precedence in most
other languages to have, like,
a formalized class system and
not prototype inheritance.
So they're sitting there and
they're like, fighting, right?
And we've talked about the big gap and
the fallout.
And it's interesting, Brendan Eich
actually, here's a little tid bit.
I'm going to tell it fast.
I can actually when they fell out and
they couldn't agree
anything it was like a fight he actually
calls that, A Fellowship of the Rings.
Cuz he's like you know how in Fellowship
of the Ring, they're all like,
we're all going to do this together and
then they all go their own way.
Like he's like the it's
the Fellowship of the Ring.
We all end up breaking up at the end.
And, it's funny,
one thing I didn't tell earlier.
So, the ES3 camps got to give up and
accept the ES4 proposals, right?
Or the other way around the ES4
camp got to give up and
accept like to push the ES4 and
just do the ES3 stuff for now, right.
So that's what happened was,
the ES4 camp as like, cool,
we give up, we'll do the ES3.1 thing for
now, and we'll move on.
So Microsoft is in the don't do ES4,
let's just do the 3.1.
So Allen Wurzbach,
he comes over to Mozilla after that.
He's at Microsoft, goes to Mozilla.
And he's like dude,
we almost gave in to your demands,
we were about to give up,
when you gave up.
So just like if we were like this close
to having all this stuff back in 2008.
But, the cards feel like they fell.
And we're at where we're at today.
So anyways, so, there's a lot,
and the heart of this conflict is
like this strong type system,
and getting something going.
And they still,
to this day cannot agree on it.
And when they can't agree on something,
remember what I already said when
the TC39, they can't be like, this is how
it works, clearly that's how it works.
What happens?
It gets pushed to the next release, right?
Like so and they were like, it causes were
never going to make it in the ES6, ever.
Okay, like it's not gonna happen.
But then Russell Leggett he
sends us email, on March 19th,
2012 and, he's like hey,
you guys should read this.
It was an excellent email, okay?
And he copies a bunch of code,
off of coffee Scripts' website,
and, he really kind of was like,
hey everyone chill out.
This is what I think we need to do, and
everyone, not immediately because
there's like a lot of discussion.
If you click on the thread.
This is where the thread starts.
And it was a huge thread that month.
Everyone's in it, and
it's like the big names Brendon and
Russell and Allen and Dave Herman.
Like,epic dudes.
Anyway, so it was a cool email.
And if you want to, go back and read it.
But this is kind of what he talked about.
He calls it, maximal minimal classes.
Maximally, I forgot the Y,
Maximally minimal classes.
And he points out the need for
classes like,
dude look we've needed this for so long.
People invented things like Coffee Script,
because we've delayed so long.
So, like he kind of points out, there's a
series the people are doing compile to JS
stuff because of it right and
we have like typescript and stuff.
So he points out a strong need for
classes for
something that's not the prototype stuff.
And he's like we get, it has to be
enhanceable by future releases.
So whatever we do release, it has to be
minimum viable that we can extend, okay?
If anything's not extendable,
we have to cut it.
Or if we're not one 100%
sure on something, it's out.
Everyone's like okay, that's cool.
And he points to Brendan, cuz Brendan's
over there and he's like, hey,
we got this.
He called Brendan's proposal
the Goldilocks proposal,
because he's like you know, it's not too
hot, it's not too cold, it's just right.
And that was Brendan's point of view,
was like, not too much classiness, not
too little classiness, but just the right
amount of class syntax and we're good.
And they could never agree on that.
So he comes up with his
Safety School Proposal.
And so the Safety School Proposal,
he's like, in the States,
we have this idea of you
graduate high school, and
you send off your applications to
the schools that you want to go to, right?
Who did that?
I didn't, but maybe some people did.
And he's like, but then you always
have like the safety school.
So when all other things say no
you have this safety school, and
you can at least go to the safety school.
He's like, that's what we need to
focus on, is the safety school.
He's like, we've got to come up
with the minimum viable product
that we can release.
I know you guys want
an Ivy League class system.
But what's the safety
school system look like?
What is that one?
And so
that's kind of what he proposes out there.
And he's like,
if we have to have something ES6.
So what is that.
What's the things we can agree
upon sans the stuff that we can't.
Let's just talk about
what we can agree upon.
And so he wins out.
Obviously, I showed you not easily,
it was a real long conversation, but
he did win out.
I mean, people pretty much adopted that
safety school proposal, the maximal and
minimum class system.
And that's what got implemented, was that.
So the things we're about to see
are the things everyone agreed on.
The things people can't agree on,
we're not gonna see that.
So everyone's gonna hey
what about the thing and
I'm gonna say it's not a thing yet,
it's still being discussed.
And if there was a feature that you
are not gonna see, go ahead and
call it out and let us know, but
there's a lot of stuff not here.
But I'll try and
show you the stuff that is here